when it comes to conventional housing
it's not uncommon for people to ask
themselves the question do I own my
house or does my house own me and that's
exactly the realization this next couple
came to before they decided to break
them all and build themselves a tiny
house on wheels
today we've traveled to Armstrong and
British Columbia to check it out
[Music]
hey Sara how's it going good how are you
good thank you lovely to meet you can i
all of them great to meet you good to
meet you as well
this is such a charming looking tiny
house you first of all can you tell me
what it was that actually inspired both
of you to built this yes it was a big
life change for us we got married we
bought the big house we were working so
hard to pay the big bills on the big
house and we just found we lost touch
with what we really enjoyed in life
which was hiking climbing and just
getting outside and enjoying nature so
we were looking for a change and the
tiny house was the change Oliver had the
building side of things and I had design
skills so we went for it yeah the house
design was sort of inspired by we wanted
to create something that looked like an
actual house so something that had the
characteristics the feel sort of the
character of sort of a heritage house or
an old house that would have some of
those elements in it and we sort of took
those elements and brought him into the
house and tried to create something that
didn't look just like a square box it
was you know had some depth to it and
showed really well and I've always loved
heritage homes with characters so I
wanted to take that and just shrink it
into the tiny home the style of the
house is really lovely
you've really nailed that heritage look
especially the way that you've got these
jewel dormers is really interesting can
you talk to me about how you did all
this yeah we obviously wanted to bring
the roofline out where the loft is to
sort of bring the ceiling height up in
the loft this one up here we wanted to
incorporate that again just to try to
give it a little bit of character and
try to give it that Heritage feel as
well as it obviously takes the snow load
and the rain and sheds it away from the
front door so that was one thing that
gave it some architectural detail as
well as a feature that to keep snow and
everything off of the front door now
you've actually designed and built this
tiny house together can you talk to me
about what that process was like it was
actually pretty easy working together
there's some moments where you kind of
had to trust me with my design ideas but
then he found out in the end that it was
for a good reason and it worked out and
it was really handy having him being on
the other side of things for the
building because I could kind of tell
them what to do yeah there's always
those design details
that I questioned throughout the build
then I go I have no idea how this is
gonna turn out but obviously through the
process the color schemes everything
sort of coincides together and and
that's where serious strengths are
really good and that's where I may be
lacking a little bit you know I can put
it together but putting it together in
my mind on the design side of things can
be challenging so Sierra's sort of took
that by the horns and did a really good
job at the same time it was great cuz
Oliver was able to rein me in as well
because I had some crazy design ideas
and Oliver was like you know that's not
exactly gonna work so I think that's
where the teamwork really came in two
things and before going tiny you were
living in a larger home and the
inspiration for the design of this tiny
house was actually taken from your
previous home wasn't it yes our house in
town actually is a bigger version of
this it has the gray siding the weight
trim the cool shingle detailing and when
we moved into the tiny house I loved our
first house so much that I just wanted
to take it and shrink it and to make it
into a little mini version I think
that's so special how you've taken your
favorite aspects from your previous
large house and you've downsized it all
into this one yeah it's pretty unique we
wanted to bring those elements from our
big house into here to make it feel like
it was home and I think that was
executed really well before we take a
look inside the house as well can we
talk about this parking spot because
you're in a very idyllic location here
on you yes we got so lucky with this
it's family land and we share it with
family members of ours and we couldn't
ask for a better spot it's private and
it's all about the nature and quiet
peaceful now I notice you've got some
solar panels on the roof so is this
house designed to be off the grid
because I see you're also hooked into
some services here so how does will that
work yeah it is designed to be fully
off-grid we sort of wanted to
incorporate that into the initial build
we do use the services when we have
access to them but it's got three solar
panels on the roof one panel on the
ground for solar tracking and then all
the heating inside is all propane so
that really takes the electrical load
off of the solar end of things we also
incorporated tanks into this to be able
to have some fresh water if that was
ever something that we wanted to do
we're obviously hooked up to services
here but we wanted to sort of keep the
options open and really explore the
potential of what a tiny house could do
for the off-grid
and what size is this tiny house this
house is 24 feet in length eight and a
half feet wide by 13 foot six high and
it's given that approximately 225 square
feet so pretty compact I really love the
look of this house the way that you've
broken up the lines with the interesting
window shapes and these jewel dilemmas
is really nice and I am very intrigued
to see what it's like on the inside can
we take a look totally let's take a look
thank you this is just so nice thank you
I especially like the way that walking
in here you just have this incredible
view of the forest even from this lovely
skylight you've got here in the center
yeah it was super important the number
one thing on my list was Windows on
Windows and Windows I'm a big natural
light person and for us we didn't really
need much wall space to put things on it
was more important to be able to look
out and see the nature around us mainly
because we have a pretty fantastic
parking spot but I find that even if
you're inside it feels like you're
outside yeah the space with this amount
of natural light brings just everything
in we have 15 windows we've got 3 3 by 3
skylights so it really really opens up
the space for sure when there's that
much natural light coming in for a house
this size 15 windows is almost
ridiculous isn't it
it is yeah there was definitely moments
where during the framing stages I was
like this too many can you have too many
windows but I mean now we look at it and
we're happy that we did every window has
its purpose yeah and again that's sort
of the trade-off with all the windows
and the skylights it will gain some heat
in in the summertime but you'll also get
that gained in the wintertime as well so
that can definitely help heating costs
and just keeping the space warm having
that Sun actually come in if it's out
does definitely benefit the house for
sure well with winters being super long
and cold there's days where you're kind
of held up and it gets dark early so I
find having all the windows around you
even though you're stuck inside seeing
all the snowfall and the beautiful
winter around you it doesn't make you
feel as cooped up as you normally would
feel well the style in here
is an absolute dream you've done such a
great job with all the decoration in
here can you tell me what was the kind
of inspiration that you were going for
with all this I've always been a fan of
white on white lots of white it's just
very calming it's relaxing white never
goes out of style and it makes the space
feel bigger and brighter we did add some
extra warmth with the hemlock touches on
the flooring and the stair treads and
shelves so I found it kind of gave it a
good balance and we brought a little pop
of color with the green gray cabinets
one of the things that I really liked
about the way that you've decorated the
home as well as the use of plants in
here because you've got this wonderful
forest Vista and then it almost brings
it inside with all of the plants that
you've got in here so it didn't start
off with a lot of plants I was always a
big fan of fake plants because I could
never keep them alive oh and no but then
it started with one plant and he
survived his name was I think Henry or
something and then it started growing
and now Oliver jokes he's like I'm just
gonna come home one day and it's just
gonna be like a jungle and I'm gonna
have to move out because there's too
many plants that would be such a banner
she asked me one day she's like is there
is there such thing as too many parts
and it was like I'm starting to think
that there maybe is at this point it's
nice I mean it definitely brings the
greenery in but it's yeah it's getting
to the point where a tiny house
definitely has only you know a certain
amount of window sills and things that
that things can get cluttered on so this
is very true I still AM personally on
the side that there is no such thing as
too many points okay he's on my team men
okay well I'm also very much not a fan
of fake plants so I'm glad that you've
definitely replaced those with real ones
and it is really lovely in here now tell
me about the living room because this is
really lovely and it seems to be quite
clever what you've done with the office
to the side and in the TV here as well
yeah so we we know we wanted a good size
couch we're pretty active people but we
do really enjoy our movie nights when we
first moved in we thought we wouldn't
need a TV that we could just wash things
in our laptop but we're big movie TV
buff so we added the TV that is under
the window and it swivels so I can turn
it while I'm doing dishes and watch the
same show or if I'm got somebody sitting
on the couch and they want to watch it
which is like super handy in the small
space as well and then we have our desk
unit which is
it's not a lot of storage but it's just
enough if I want to answer emails when I
get home and do a little bit of work and
store the computer underneath and it's
just what I need
I do like the way that you've built that
with the little cubby for the laptop as
well but it's being able to get that off
of the table and keep it clear during
the day is really nice when we first
we're designing the tiny house the
biggest thing as Oliver said you know we
don't really have any room for a
official dining area and I kind of
pointed out that even when we were
living in a big house the dining table
wasn't also just used to put stuff on so
we compromised it the little desk that
yeah some stuff gets put on but it's
only so big so you can't really put much
on it we wanted to make the living room
feel as spacious as possible obviously
only being in such a small space we
wanted that relaxation space at the end
of the day to sort of kick your feet up
and take it easy one of the things we
did to make the living room feel bigger
because it was quite small is we added
the bay window feature which makes it
feel bigger than it actually is by
reaching out with the windows and then
underneath is the outside access to our
propane storage very clear though I like
how you've done that and now tell me
about the kitchen this definitely has a
very country homes did feel to it
totally this is our dream kitchen in a
very small size which I think it's
actually pretty big for a tiny house we
went with quartz countertops and then we
want the custom cabinetry soft clothes
so it's it's super easy to use you just
if you're not arguing and you're mad you
still can't slam it great we won't miss
your classic white hex on the backsplash
again I just love the white on white it
may be tough to clean sometimes but I
just love the crisp bright look of it
and then we went with a 20 inch propane
range here as well easy to clean I love
it so you can just remove the grills and
get in there because honestly I'm a
pretty messy cook so yeah I mean the
range is perfect for a compact space
like this for two people I mean unless
we're doing some sort of crazy Christmas
turkey dinner or whatever it should
never happen is more than enough for two
people to cook with and then obviously
it's got a little tiny oven with a
broiler on the bottom and it's it's a
perfect size for this size of house we
wanted the kitchen to feel like it was
large with lots of counter space and
ample prep area but sacrificing a little
bit on
on maybe the appliances we went for a 24
inch farm sink here we did a built-in
range hood over top as well and it looks
like you've also been able to build a
lot of storage here into your stairs as
well I can see the washer/dryer there
you've got the full fridge and a couple
extra drawers as well yeah so our dog
owns this space here she has a little
kennel she luckily gets to go to work
with us every day so that's only for the
odd time we have to put her in there and
then she has like a full drawer to
herself not gonna lie she also has a
couple drawers in the kitchen but we
won't get into that very yeah we tuck
the washer/dryer combo under there as
well as the fridge and then we just have
an extra drawer on top there for things
like laundry detergent an extra toilet
paper it's nice to be able to utilize
the stairs for basically all of the
appliance storage and yes in in terms of
the big stuff and then have some extra
storage for things like pets or what
have you
absolutely and then it looks like you've
got some extra storage bag they tucked
away what's in there yeah so there's a
door on either side and we have a
his-and-hers closet which is a big deal
for me I wanted room for some clothing
and have it separate from each other so
mine is on the right and it just gives
you enough hanging room and you've got
storage shelves too full clothing and
then just enough room for your little
laundry basket yeah it's nice to be able
to have like serious said that separate
area you know we see see some tiny homes
where that space is sort of combined and
that can be sort of the
make-it-or-break-it factor when it comes
to living together in a tiny house oh
yes here's got her space I have my space
sometimes my space is neat sometimes her
spaces not so neat some leaves he has
more clothing than I do I swear yeah yes
I am not gonna pick sides on this and
then behind all of that is the bathroom
I'm guessing yes it's actually our
favorite room of the house I think it
turned out so spacious and bigger than I
thought it would and I must say I had to
go with the clown foot that is adorable
it does look like a mini cast-iron tub
yes so my biggest thing is I always want
to clawfoot my whole life and I never
got one so even though we're
tiny I told Oliver we're still getting
the clawfoot and it's like okay it's
gonna be small but we'll make it happen
I can take bubble baths in here no
problem but are you actually yeah do you
want me to demonstrate I think you have
to yeah I'm gonna show you how it works
so this is me all right okay it's kind
of a cross between a clawfoot tub and a
Japanese everything Tom totally right
Oliver just ends up taking showers in it
it's just like a shower Basin and once
you wrap the curtain around its fully
enclosed which is nice
have you ever tried taking a bath in
that Oliver I have yeah there was about
six inches in water at the bottom and it
was overflowing it's a good use of water
it's conservative you don't need much
but you get in it kind of comes up nice
and high that's definitely thinking on
the bright side I like that then you've
got the composting toilet here as well
yes I was super hesitant about getting a
compost toilet when we were designing
the tiny house we'd stayed in a couple
tiny ish homes with ones there were
different units and they debt you
definitely could notice some smell after
a couple days but this one is totally
worth it no smell and we just I couldn't
imagine using anything else yeah for us
the obviously the amount of water usage
that a regular toilet uses it was a huge
factor in in deciding to obviously go to
the composting route we were blown away
by the amount of water consumption that
an actual you know a regular North
American toilet uses as pretty
substantial so when you calculate that
out for a year with two people right it
is a huge amount of water for really a
time where we need to be taking a look
at where our water is being used and
literally flushing it down the toilet is
not one of those ways and totally with
you on that one good thinking on that
and then your sleeping loft is upstairs
yes can we take that out absolutely
let's go check it out all right
oh this is just so cozy I especially
like how you've got the dual skylights
up here yes it was very important to
open up the space it is a little bit of
a tighter loft so that's why we went
with a window on each side as well as
the skylights we love the windows on the
sides because we can open the windows
all the way and then at night you get
just like this amazing cross breeze our
biggest thing as we said with the
skylights was it was you know we can
watch the stars it
but I swear every time we come up here
and we're like okay let's look at the
stars we ended just in a falling asleep
like we don't actually ever get a chance
to enjoy them or was too tired but the
thought was there and another thing we
did with the skylights was we did the
solar shades so these closed and open
which is great because I find if you if
you have these skylights and the Sun is
on the home it gets really toasty up
here so it's really important to be able
to close those definitely nice having
that option and now what's this unit up
here yeah so we just went with a plug-in
a/c for us we don't use an AC enough to
really justify like a built in unit so
we just went with one that sits on the
floor we don't use that corner space
anyway it's doesn't really matter to us
so it's just there when we need it so
how long have you been living in the
hood now we've been in the home for
about two years now we haven't looked
back since I mean it's been a pretty
amazing experience for both of us just
to be able to get back to the things
that originally brought us together as a
couple and and open up some more free
time and to be able to enjoy the
outdoors and and to be able to embrace
you know where we live and what it has
to offer I think the most common
question we can ask now two years into
tiny living is do you ever see yourself
moving back into the big home and I I
don't think so there's the only reason
I'd go bigger would be maybe a little
bit bigger of a tiny house in the future
but other than that like just so happy
with it yeah it's really simplified the
way that we live and really we haven't
sacrificed a whole lot to move from
basically you know 2,500 square feet
down to 225 so yeah this really gave us
the opportunity for us to kind of go
back to our roots and and establish what
was important to us and it's been
interesting though because before when
we have the big house we worked opposite
shifts I was a dance teacher and you
were working landscaping so he was
during the day I was during the night
and we never saw each other so when we
went tiny we went from never seeing each
other to living in a tiny house and
going to work the same job working
together because we're on our business
together so it went from like zero to
100 and we're still married so that's
gotta be a good testimonial for it then
right the tiny house in our life what
it's brought to us is just a sense of
kind of like relaxation and it's taken a
bit of stress away when I
home I'm excited when I get into the
tiny also come in and I like take a deep
breath and then it's home and when I go
traveling I think about man I just want
to get back to the tiny house no matter
where we are so it must be pretty good
home for us if yeah it's also brought
for us it's brought a business I mean
really at the end of the day we wouldn't
have been able to to sustain the house
that we were in and move into a new
business venture so not only a tiny home
business but it's also you know brought
the opportunity of of having the
financial freedom to be able to feel a
little bit more confident moving into
something like a business as young
entrepreneurs that's the big challenges
is they're still you know rent payments
and mortgage payments and bills that are
looming that that need to get paid and
it's opened up the door for us to not
dismiss those things but alleviate as
much of those things as possible so that
we can focus our attention on building
the business and what was the budget for
this tiny house we had sort of put out a
budget at about seventy thousand that
wasn't including any of our labor cost
we probably hit more like eighty eighty
five so we blew that budget a little bit
but we were pretty confident in that
money being well spent so things like
the solar and and the finishes that we
wanted on the house to really make it
feel like home for us was really
important so I think those numbers
really made sense for us but I think at
the end of the day it's money well spent
for sure certainly being able to do all
of the work yourselves will have saved a
lot of money there
and I think you can certainly see where
the money has gone into this house there
are very high-quality fittings and some
really beautiful details that have gone
into this so I completely agree with you
money very well spent
thank you appreciate it well I think
you've done such a brilliant job with
this home I love how you've taken some
of those character elements of your past
house and put them all into this one and
I can see that this is a home which is
really working absolutely beautifully
for both of you thank you so much for
sharing thanks guys appreciate it coming
out thank you this tiny house really is
just so beautiful and while they may not
quite fit in this bathtub it's just
filled with so many elements that really
give it that feeling of home what I like
most about this house though is the
lifestyle that it's given to Oliver and
Sarah this house has given them their
weekends back the ability to venture
into the outdoors doing things that they
love and even start a new business and
realistically there are very few home
options that can do all of that for you
[Music]
you